Journal:  

1) Once I am a Mechanist, I must seek revenge upon ‘Captain Fang’ and ‘Joshua’ for laying me off after slaving day and night over the generators, even at risk of death.  That salty dog and his first mate will never sail again if I have anything to say about it!

2) I still have no word from any of the cathedrals, churches, or chapels who have my application.  I see more and more Mechanists getting initiated every day.  Why not me?  I’m too short, I’m told.  I talk funny, I’m told.  You’re lucky we don’t cut your tongue out for being an uncouth cur, I’m told.  I’ll show them.  Once I am a brilliant Mechanist engineer, I’ll have them all fired.  Beaten, then fired… 

3) I saw a ‘help wanted’ flier for guard at some place called ‘The Ivory Rose’.  I should check it out, I think they have some massive electrical systems there; I’m sure they could use a guard who knows his way around a transformer or turbine.  I need to find the address… it’s somewhere in Three Gates Bridge I think.

4) I’m not sure how much longer I can stand working at this place.  They won’t let me go near the electrics; they have some outsourced tech who handles that.  I’ve talked with him, but he’s an idiot!  I could do a much better job.  One of these days, I’m going to turn off the power, and put a damaged fuse into the fuse box.  Once the power is turned back on, pow!  The electrical system for the building goes dead.  I’ll be the only one who can fix it; and I’ll take my time too.  Maybe a month.  That’ll show them.

5) The time I’ve spent sneaking through the crawlways of the Ivory Rose has given me an edge over the Mechanists!  I can hardly contain my excitement at my discoveries!  Almost all new Mechanist installations have similar crawlspace systems for maintenance of their electrics and water circulation.  I’ve made several trips to temple and factories already, making maps, eavesdropping, and even venturing out into research chambers and the factory floors time and again to spy glimpses at their work and inventions.  It’s given me so many ideas for inventions of my own!  They are sure to hire me now!
 
6) This is perfect!  No-one ever sulks through these old crawlways, so my new cozy den will be just for me and no-one else.  From here I can get to all over the casino without being seen.  There’s still so many gratings which remain unopened though; I wonder how much I’ve yet to discover?
 
7) Places to check for my lost map; Water drain in northeast – No.  Top floor, near Cloud’s office – No.  Break room – No (unless someone found it and took it!).  Security office – No (thank goodness!).  I have to find it!  Where on earth could it be?!

8) I wrote a reply to the Mechanists, but I chickened out, I didn’t send it.  I’ll keep it in a safe place for now, in case I reconsider, or maybe I’ll write a new letter; something less confrontational.  Yes, that’s a good idea.


Applied to Mechanists:  

Dear Brother Blee, 

Thank you for considering my application to join the Mechanists as an electrical engineer.  I am certain that I will not disappoint you.  However, I understand that my acceptance into your ranks is not yet a sure thing!  Allow me to persuade you.  Know that I have, many times, been offered admittance to join the Hammerites.  Also know that I have knowledge of Mechanist business which they would find very useful.  

I am sure that you would not want them to know, for example, that you are using the foundry in Southern Shalebridge for the design and manufacture of your camera devices, and that the basement contains extensive blueprints.  

I am sure that you would also not want the Hammerites to know the laziness of the back guards to your temple at the intersection of Tyree Street and Borch, you know, the one in North Quarter? – the place where your scientists working on top secret projects sleep?  

I have also, by the way, learned the secret of how your cameras can tell friend from foe.  

No, I am sure you will not want The Hammerites to know any of this, that is why I am sure you will accept me into your ranks.

Your humble servant,

~ Pomok
